.TH Gmsh 1 "25 April 2022" "4.10" "Gmsh Manual Pages"
.UC 4
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH NAME
Gmsh \- 3D finite element mesh generator with built-in CAD engine and
post-processor
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gmsh [file(s)] [option(s)]
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIGmsh\fR is a 3D finite element grid generator with a build-in CAD
engine and post-processor. Its design goal is to provide a fast, light
and user-friendly meshing tool with parametric input and advanced
visualization capabilities.
.PP
\fIGmsh\fR is built around four modules: geometry, mesh, solver and
post-processing. The specification of any input to these modules is
done either interactively using the graphical user interface, in
ASCII text files using \fIGmsh\fR's own scripting language (\fI.geo\fR
files), or using the C++, C, Python or Julia Application Programming
Interface (API).
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH GEOMETRY OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B \-0
Output model, then exit.
.TP 4
.B \-tol float
set geometrical tolerance.
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH MESH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B \-1, \-2, \-3
perform 1D, 2D or 3D mesh generation, then exit.
.TP 4
.B \-o file
specify output file name.
.TP 4
.B \-format string
set output mesh format (auto, msh, msh1, msh2, msh4, unv, vrml, stl, mesh, bdf, med, ...).
.TP 4
.B \-bin
use binary format when available.
.TP 4
.B \-saveall
save all elements (discard physical group definitions)
.TP 4
.B \-algo string
select mesh algorithm (meshadapt, del2d, front2d, del3d, front3d, hxt, ...).
.TP 4
.B \-parametric
save nodes with their parametric coordinates.
.TP 4
.B \-part int
partition the mesh after batch mesh generation.
.TP 4
.B \-smooth int
set number of mesh smoothing steps.
.TP 4
.B \-order int
set mesh order.
.TP 4
.B \-clscale float
set global mesh element size scaling factor.
.TP 4
.B \-clmin float
set minimum mesh element size.
.TP 4
.B \-clmax float
set maximum mesh element size.
.TP 4
.B \-rand float
set random perturbation factor.
.TP 4
.B \-bgm file
load the post-processing view in file as the current background mesh.
.TP 4
.B \-check
perform various consistency checks on mesh.
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH POST-PROCESSING OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B \-combine
combine input views into multi-time-step ones.
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH DISPLAY OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B \-n
hide all meshes and post-processing views on startup.
.TP 4
.B \-fontsize int
specify the font size for the GUI.
.TP 4
.B \-display string
specify display.
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B \-
parse input files, then exit.
.TP 4
.B \-new
create new model before merge next file.
.TP 4
.B \-merge
merge next files.
.TP 4
.B \-open
ppen next files.
.TP 4
.B \-a, \-g, \-m, \-s, \-p
start in automatic, geometry, mesh, solver or post-processing mode.
.TP 4
.B \-pid
print pid on stdout.
.TP 4
.B \-listen string
always listen to incoming connection requests on the given socket
(a default socket is used if not specified).
.TP 4
.B \-v int
set verbosity level.
.TP 4
.B \-nopopup
don't popup dialog windows in scripts.
.TP 4
.B \-setnumber "name" value
set constant number name=value
.TP 4
.B \-setstring "name" "value"
set constant string name=value
.TP 4
.B \-string "string"
parse option string at startup.
.TP 4
.B \-option file
parse option file at startup.
.TP 4
.B \-convert files
Convert files into latest binary formats, then exit.
.TP 4
.B \-version
show version number.
.TP 4
.B \-info
show detailed version information.
.TP 4
.B \-help
show help message.
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH AUTHORS
Christophe Geuzaine (cgeuzaine@uliege.be) and Jean-Francois Remacle
(jean-francois.remacle@uclouvain.be).
.\" ********************************************************************
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getdp (1),
.br
Gmsh examples (\fI/usr/share/doc/gmsh\fR),
.br
Gmsh homepage (\fIhttps://gmsh.info\fR).
.PP
The full documentation for Gmsh is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If
the
.B info
and
.B gmsh
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info gmsh
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
